README.md, before:

# react-diff-view

A git diff component to consume the git unified diff output.

![split view](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/otakustay/react-diff-view/master/screenshots/split-view.png)

![unified view](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/otakustay/react-diff-view/master/screenshots/unified-view.png)

## Full features

- A clean and small core to display diff.
- Support split (side by side) and unified (one column) views.
- Tolerable performance.
- Configurable column diffs.
- Code select and highlight.
- Extensible widget architecture to support code commenting and various requirements.
- External syntax highlight support in an easy way.
- Customizable events and styles.

Run `npm start` to enjoy a full featured demo with diff display, collapsed code expansion, code comment and large diff lazy load.

You can modify the `small.diff` to `large.diff` in `demo/App.js` to test the performance, the `large.diff` is a **2.2MB diff file with 375 files changed, 18721 insertions(+), 35671 deletions(-)**, it can possibly hung your computer so use it in caution.

In my laptop (MacBook Pro 15-inch 2016, 2.6 GHz Intel Core i7, 16 GB 2133 MHz LPDDR3) it performs quite slow but tolerable:

```
parse: 88.73291015625ms
render: 26072.791015625ms
paint: 6199.848876953125ms
```

## Install

```shell
npm install --save react-diff-view
```

## Basic usage

### Parse diff text

For best display effect, you should generate your diff text with `git diff -U1` command.

The `{File[] parseDiff({string} text, {Object} [options])` named export is a wrap of [gitdiff-parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gitdiff-parser) package with some extra options:

- `{boolean} stubHunk`: Whether to add a stub empty hunk at the tail of each hunk list, this can provide an extra hunk header when [customizing hunk header](#customize-hunk-header), for example, to expand code after the diff.
- `{string} nearbySequences`: The action to take when meet nearby sequences, only the `"zip"` value has its own behavior.

The `nearbySequence` can have a value of `"zip"` to "zip" a sequences of deletion and additions, as an example, here is a diff generated from react:

```diff
-    // if someone has already defined a value bail and don't track value
-    // will cause over reporting of changes, but it's better then a hard failure
-    // (needed for certain tests that spyOn input values)
-    if (node.hasOwnProperty(valueField)) {
+    // if someone has already defined a value or Safari, then bail
+    // and don't track value will cause over reporting of changes,
+    // but it's better then a hard failure
+    // (needed for certain tests that spyOn input values and Safari)
```

This is the normal behavior, which will displaed as 3 lines of deletion, 1 line of modification and 3 lines of addition:

![Normal sequence behavior](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/otakustay/react-diff-view/master/screenshots/sequence-normal.png)

WHen the value `"zip"` is passed, the diff will be modified to:

```diff
-    // if someone has already defined a value bail and don't track value
+    // if someone has already defined a value or Safari, then bail
-    // will cause over reporting of changes, but it's better then a hard failure
+    // and don't track value will cause over reporting of changes,
-    // (needed for certain tests that spyOn input values)
+    // but it's better then a hard failure
-    if (node.hasOwnProperty(valueField)) {
+    // (needed for certain tests that spyOn input values and Safari)
```

and as a result rendered as:

![Normal sequence behavior](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/otakustay/react-diff-view/master/screenshots/sequence-zip.png)

Sometimes it can provide a better look.

### Render diff hunks

The `Diff` named export is a component which accepts a diff file object and correctly display it in either unified or split view, here is the full list of its props:

- `{Hunk[]} hunks`: The hunks of diff, simply get it from the `parseDiff` output.
- `{ReactElement[]} children`: Instead of passing a list of hunks, you can make each hunk a more customizable `Hunk` component, see [Customize hunk header](#customize-hunk-header) sectionf or its use case.
- `{string} viewType`: Can be either `"unified"` or `"split"` to determine how the diff should look like.
- `{string} className`: An extra css class.
- `{Object} customEvents`: An object containing events for different part, see [Customize events](#customize-events) section for detail.
- `{Object} customClassNames`: An object containing css classes for different part, see [Customize styles](#customize-styles) section for detail.
- `{string[]} selectedChanges`: An array of selected changes's key, these changes will be highlighted.
- `{Function} markEdits`: A function to mark edits between old and new content, see [Mark column edits](#mark-column-edits) section for detail.
- `{Function} onRenderCode`: Callback when code is rendered, can be used to further manipulate the DOM element containing code, see [Syntax highlight](#syntax-highlight) section for detail.
- `{Object} widgets`: An object of `{changeKey: element}` to render widget for changes, see [Add widgets](#add-widgets) section for detail.

A basic use case is to pass `hunks` and `viewType` prop to `Diff` component, the diff will be rendered:

```javascript
import {parseDiff, Diff} from 'react-diff-view';

const App = ({diffText}) => {
    const {files} = parseDiff(diffText);

    return (
        <div>
            {files.map(({hunks}, i) => <Diff key={i} hunks={hunks} viewType="split" />)}
        </div>
    );
};
```

This will render diff in a default split (side by side) view.

#### Key of change

In `selectedChanges` and `widgets` props the key of change is used to match a specific change, a change's key is simply a string computed by the following rules:

```javascript
if (change.type === 'insert') {
    return 'I' + change.lineNumber;
}
else if (change.type === 'delete') {
    return 'D' + change.lineNumber;
}
else {
    return 'N' + change.oldLineNumber;
}
```

You are not required to compute this key yourself, the `getChangeKey(change)` exported function will do it.

## Advanced

### Customize hunk header

Sometimes you need to add functions to hunks, for example, to load collapsed code between 2 hunks, this can be archived with several steps:

1. Instead of pass the `hunks` props, map each hunk to a `Hunk` component and pass it as children of `Diff`.
2. Customize your `header` prop for `Hunk` component.

The `Hunk` named export is a component representing a hunk of diff, each hunk accepts a `header` prop with possible different types of value:

- `undefined`: Then `Hunk` will append a default header containing the content of hunk.
- `null`: Header will be removed completely.
- A single react element: this will be rendered in the entire row.
- An array containing two react elements: The first element will be rendered in gutter position, the second will be rendered in code position.

When using hunks as children, you are not required to pass extra props such as `viewType` or `customEvents` to `Hunk` component, these props will be passed by `Diff` component, the only reason you build your own children is to add the `header` prop:

```javascript
import {parseDiff, Diff, Hunk} from 'react-diff-view';

const renderHunk = hunk => {
    // Only render in the code section
    const header = [null, `${hunk.changes} changes below`];

    return <Hunk key={hunk.content} hunk={hunk} header={header} />;
};

const App = ({diffText}) => {
    const {files} = parseDiff(diffText);

    return (
        <div>
            {files.map(({hunks}, i) => <Diff key={i} viewType="split">{hunks.map(renderHunk)}</Diff>)}
        </div>
    );
};
```

### Mark column edits

The term "column edits" stands for highlighted areas on a modified line, they are usually produced by further comparing the old and new line content.

To mark an edits between changes, you can provide the `markEdits` function prop to `Diff` component, this function receives two changes and returns a tuple (array) of `[Edit[], Edit[]]`, the first element is edits for the old change, the second element is for the new change.

A edit is simply an array with two numbers `[startIndex, length]`, the first element is the start index in original text, the second number represents the length of this edit.

For example, we have a string `"This is a good day"` and two edits `[5, 2]` and `[10, 4]` as input, the result would be:

```html
This <mark class="diff-code-edit">is</mark> a <mark class="diff-code-edit">good</mark> day
```

The `markEdits` function **MUST** comply with some extra restrictions:

- Either `oldChange` or `newChange` can be null, you should check for it.
- The return value cannot be null, it must be an array with two arrays, neither `null` or `[null, null]` is accepted, for the result of "no edit", just return `[[], []]` instead.
- Edits must be sorted by `startIndex`.
- Edits cannot be overlapped with each other, the value `[[1, 3], [2, 3]]` can result undefined behavior.

`react-diff-view` is shipped with 2 built-in `markEdits` functions, they are:

- `{Function} markWordEdits({Object} options)` to diff two strings word by word.
- `{Function} markCharacterEdits({Object} options)` to diff two string character by character.

They both accept a `options` object with following properties:

- `{number} threshold`: The maximum string distance when this function should try to mark edits, if two string's distance is greater than it, edits marking is disabled, the default value is `Infinity`.
- `{boolean} markLongDistanceDiff`: If is `true`, two strings with distance greater than `threshold` will create an edit containing the whole string, the default value is `false`.

For example, following code asks `Diff` component to compare old and new content word by word when their distance is shorter than 30, if the content's distance is longer than 30, the entires line is marked:

```javascript
import {Diff, markWordEdits} from 'react-diff-view';

const markEdits = markWordEdits({threshold: 30, markLongDistanceDiff: true});

<Diff markEdits={markEdits} />
```

### Add widgets

In some cases we need functions like commenting on change, `react-diff-view` provides an extensible solution called **widget** to archive such senarios.

A widget is any react element bound to a change object, a widget is configured in an object with `change` and `element` property, when rendering diff changes, if there is a widget object with the same `change` object, the `element` will be rendered below the line of code.

In split view a widget will be rendered to its corresponding side if change object is of type addition or deletion, otherwise the widget will be rendered across the entire row.

Note although the `widgets` prop is of type array, each change can only render one widget, so if there are entries with the same `change` property, only the first one will be rendered.

Here is a very basic example which adds a warning text on long lines:

```javascript
import {parseDiff, getChangeKey, Diff} from 'react-diff-view';

const getWidgets = ({hunks}) => {
    const changes = hunks.reduce((result, {changes}) => [...result, ...changes], []);
    const longLines = changes.filter(({content}) => content.length > 120);
    return longLines.reduce(
        (widgets, change) => {
            const changeKey = getChangeKey(change);

            return {
                ...widgets,
                [changeKey]: <span className="error">Line too long</span>
            };
        },
        {}
    );
};

const App = ({diffText}) => {
    const {files} = parseDiff(diffText);

    return (
        <div>
            {files.map(({hunks}, i) => <Diff key={i} hunks={hunks} widgets={getWidgets(hunks)} viewType="split" />)}
        </div>
    );
};
```

For more complex case, you can get a full example in [demo/File.js](demo/File.js) about how to implement code comment with `widgets` prop

### Customize styles

The basic theme of `react-diff-view` is simply "picked" from github, with some additional colors for column diffs, the style is bundled with js using [style-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/style-loader) by default, if you want to separate the style, you can build it from the `src` folder, [webpack's `resolve.aliases` configuration](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/resolve/#resolve-alias) can help to archive this.

You can override styles on certian css classes to customize the appearance of `react-diff-view`, here is a list of css classes generated by component:

- `diff`: The diff container, a `<table>` element.
- `diff-gutter-col`: The `<col>` element to control the gutter column.
- `diff-hunk`: The `<tbody>` element representing a diff hunk.
- `diff-hunk-header`: The `<tr>` element reprensenting the hunk's header.
- `diff-hunk-header-gutter`: The `<td>` element corresponding to gutter within hunk header.
- `diff-hunk-header-content`: The `<td>` element corresponding to code content within hunk header.
- `diff-gutter`: The `<td>` element containing the line number.
- `diff-gutter-normal`: Gutter of a normal change.
- `diff-gutter-add`: Gutter of an addition.
- `diff-gutter-del`: Gutter of a deletion.
- `diff-gutter-omit`: Gutter with no content.
- `diff-gutter-selected`: Gutter of a selected change.
- `diff-line`: The `<tr>` element for a line of diff.
- `diff-line-old-only`: The `<tr>` element which only contains the left side columns, appears in split view
- `diff-line-new-only`: The `<tr>` element which only contains the right side columns, appears in split view
- `diff-code`: The `<td>` element containing code.
- `diff-code-normal`: Code of a normal change.
- `diff-code-add`: Code of an addition.
- `diff-code-del`: Code of a deletion.
- `diff-code-omit`: Code with no content.
- `diff-code-selected`: Code of a selected change.
- `diff-code-edit`: Edits on a line of code.

You can pass `className` prop to `Diff` component to add custom class to the `<table>` element.

The `Diff` component also accepts a `customClassNames` prop which contains custom css classes for different part, it can be a object with multiple keys: `hunk`, `hunkHeader`, `gutterHeader`, `codeHeader`, `line`, `gutter`, `code`, each value can be a string, the value will be appended to corresponding part's `className` prop.

### Customize events

You can pass a `customEvents` object to `Diff` component to add events to different part, the accepted keys are `gutterHeader`, `codeHeader`, `gutter` and `code`, each value is an object containing DOM events key/value pair.

One of the common case for `customEvents` is to add code selecting functionality, this can be archived simply by passing a `onClick` event to gutter and manipulate the `selectedChanges` prop:

```javascript
import {PureComponent} from 'react';
import {bind} from 'lodash-decorators';
import {Diff} from 'react-diff-view';

class File extends PureComponent {
    state = {
        selectedChanges: [],
        customEvents: {
            gutter: {
                onClick: this.selectChange
            }
        }
    };

    @bind()
    selectChange(change) {
        const {selectedChanges} = this.state;
        const selected = selectedChanges.includes(change);
        this.setState({selectedChanges: selected ? without(selectedChanges, change) : [...selectedChanges, change]});
    }

    render() {
        return <Diff {...this.props} {...this.state}>;
    }
}
```

`customEvents` can also be utilized to add comment or expand collapsed code, see [demo/File.js](demo/File.js) for more implementation details.

### Syntax highlight

As a minimum core component, `react-diff-component` itself does not provide any highlight functions, however the `onRenderCode` prop will be called each time a line of code is rendered, this can be used to enable code highlight.

The `onRenderCode` callback prop receives two elements: a `<td>` DOM element and its corresponding `change` object, the code is already rendered in the `<td>` element, you can simply call any syntax highlight library to highlight the code.

Note if `columnDiff` is enabled, there may be multiple `<span>` elements in `<td>` to highlight column differences, your syntax highlight library may stripped out all of them. Here we recommend [Prism](http://prismjs.com/) as the syntax highlighting library, combining with its [keep-markup plugin](https://github.com/PrismJS/prism/tree/gh-pages/plugins/keep-markup) the column difference can be preserved perfectly.

Another problem is most syntax highlighting library requires a css class on the container element, this can be solved by adding the `code` property in `customClassNames` prop, a very simple example could be:

```javascript
import {PureComponent} from 'react';
import parsePath from 'path-parse';
import {languages} from 'lang-map';
import {bind} from 'lodash-decorators';
import {Diff} from 'react-diff-view';
// Create your custom bundle of Prism with keep-markup plugin enabled
import Prism from './3rd/prism';
import './3rd/prism.css';

const highlight = element => Prisim.highlightElement(element);

class File extends PureComponent {
    state = {
        selectedChanges: [],
        customEvents: {
            code: {
                onClick: highlight
            }
        }
    };

    @bind()
    selectChange(change) {
        const {selectedChanges} = this.state;
        const selected = selectedChanges.includes(change);
        this.setState({selectedChanges: selected ? without(selectedChanges, change) : [...selectedChanges, change]});
    }

    render() {
        const {from, to} = this.props;
        const filename = to === '/dev/null' ? from : to;
        const {ext = ''} = parsePath(filename);
        const [language] = languages(ext);
        const classNames = {
            code: `language-${language || 'unknown'}`
        };
        return <Diff {...this.props} {...this.state} customClassNames={classNames}>;
    }
}
```

### Utilities

`react-diff-component` comes with some utility functions to help simplify common issues:

- `{Hunk[]} addStubHunk({Hunk[]} hunks)`: Adds a stub hunk (with no actual changes) to the end of `hunks`, this is useful when you want to expand code after the last line of diff.
- `{number} computeOldLineNumber({Change} change)`: Compute the line number in old revision for a change.
- `{number} computeNewLineNumber({Change} change)`: Compute the line number in new revision for a change.
- `{Hunk} textLinesToHunk({string[]} lines, {number} oldStartLineNumber, {number} newStartLineNumber)`: Create a hunk with all normal changes, this is useful when expanding code between two hunks.
- `{Hunk[]} insertHunk({Hunk[]} hunks, {Hunk} insertion)`: Insert a new hunk into the original list, it will merge hunk is possible, useful for expanding code.

## Unsupported

### Wordwrap

No, there isn't a wordwrap configuration, lines are automatically wrapped by default, and there is almost impossible to implement other wrap styles, unless we choose `table-layout: auto` which critically hit the performance.

Any solutions of this issue are welcome.

### Test

I don't really know how to test such a complicated and UI centric component, any helps are welcome.

## Change Log

### 1.0.0

- Move to a self-implement diff parser which is faster and provides more information (binary, chmod, etc...).
- Add a `react-diff-view/parse` module providing 2 named exports: `parseDiff` and `addStubHunk`, this can be used on web workers.
- Styles are now in a standalone `index.css` file with source map support.
- Upgrade `react` and `prop-types` dependency versions to MIT licensed ones, also `react ^16.0.0` is supported.

Commit message:

Adjust style
- Removed unofficial style
- Enabled widget related class names

README.md, after:

# react-diff-view

A git diff component to consume the git unified diff output.

![split view](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/otakustay/react-diff-view/master/screenshots/split-view.png)

![unified view](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/otakustay/react-diff-view/master/screenshots/unified-view.png)

## Full features

- A clean and small core to display diff.
- Support split (side by side) and unified (one column) views.
- Tolerable performance.
- Configurable column diffs.
- Code select and highlight.
- Extensible widget architecture to support code commenting and various requirements.
- External syntax highlight support in an easy way.
- Customizable events and styles.

Run `npm start` to enjoy a full featured demo with diff display, collapsed code expansion, code comment and large diff lazy load.

You can modify the `small.diff` to `large.diff` in `demo/App.js` to test the performance, the `large.diff` is a **2.2MB diff file with 375 files changed, 18721 insertions(+), 35671 deletions(-)**, it can possibly hung your computer so use it in caution.

In my laptop (MacBook Pro 15-inch 2016, 2.6 GHz Intel Core i7, 16 GB 2133 MHz LPDDR3) it performs quite slow but tolerable:

```
parse: 88.73291015625ms
render: 26072.791015625ms
paint: 6199.848876953125ms
```

## Install

```shell
npm install --save react-diff-view
```

## Basic usage

### Parse diff text

For best display effect, you should generate your diff text with `git diff -U1` command.

The `{File[] parseDiff({string} text, {Object} [options])` named export is a wrap of [gitdiff-parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gitdiff-parser) package with some extra options:

- `{boolean} stubHunk`: Whether to add a stub empty hunk at the tail of each hunk list, this can provide an extra hunk header when [customizing hunk header](#customize-hunk-header), for example, to expand code after the diff.
- `{string} nearbySequences`: The action to take when meet nearby sequences, only the `"zip"` value has its own behavior.

The `nearbySequence` can have a value of `"zip"` to "zip" a sequences of deletion and additions, as an example, here is a diff generated from react:

```diff
-    // if someone has already defined a value bail and don't track value
-    // will cause over reporting of changes, but it's better then a hard failure
-    // (needed for certain tests that spyOn input values)
-    if (node.hasOwnProperty(valueField)) {
+    // if someone has already defined a value or Safari, then bail
+    // and don't track value will cause over reporting of changes,
+    // but it's better then a hard failure
+    // (needed for certain tests that spyOn input values and Safari)
```

This is the normal behavior, which will displaed as 3 lines of deletion, 1 line of modification and 3 lines of addition:

![Normal sequence behavior](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/otakustay/react-diff-view/master/screenshots/sequence-normal.png)

WHen the value `"zip"` is passed, the diff will be modified to:

```diff
-    // if someone has already defined a value bail and don't track value
+    // if someone has already defined a value or Safari, then bail
-    // will cause over reporting of changes, but it's better then a hard failure
+    // and don't track value will cause over reporting of changes,
-    // (needed for certain tests that spyOn input values)
+    // but it's better then a hard failure
-    if (node.hasOwnProperty(valueField)) {
+    // (needed for certain tests that spyOn input values and Safari)
```

and as a result rendered as:

![Normal sequence behavior](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/otakustay/react-diff-view/master/screenshots/sequence-zip.png)

Sometimes it can provide a better look.

### Render diff hunks

The `Diff` named export is a component which accepts a diff file object and correctly display it in either unified or split view, here is the full list of its props:

- `{Hunk[]} hunks`: The hunks of diff, simply get it from the `parseDiff` output.
- `{ReactElement[]} children`: Instead of passing a list of hunks, you can make each hunk a more customizable `Hunk` component, see [Customize hunk header](#customize-hunk-header) sectionf or its use case.
- `{string} viewType`: Can be either `"unified"` or `"split"` to determine how the diff should look like.
- `{string} className`: An extra css class.
- `{Object} customEvents`: An object containing events for different part, see [Customize events](#customize-events) section for detail.
- `{Object} customClassNames`: An object containing css classes for different part, see [Customize styles](#customize-styles) section for detail.
- `{string[]} selectedChanges`: An array of selected changes's key, these changes will be highlighted.
- `{Function} markEdits`: A function to mark edits between old and new content, see [Mark column edits](#mark-column-edits) section for detail.
- `{Function} onRenderCode`: Callback when code is rendered, can be used to further manipulate the DOM element containing code, see [Syntax highlight](#syntax-highlight) section for detail.
- `{Object} widgets`: An object of `{changeKey: element}` to render widget for changes, see [Add widgets](#add-widgets) section for detail.

A basic use case is to pass `hunks` and `viewType` prop to `Diff` component, the diff will be rendered:

```javascript
import {parseDiff, Diff} from 'react-diff-view';

const App = ({diffText}) => {
    const {files} = parseDiff(diffText);

    return (
        <div>
            {files.map(({hunks}, i) => <Diff key={i} hunks={hunks} viewType="split" />)}
        </div>
    );
};
```

This will render diff in a default split (side by side) view.

#### Key of change

In `selectedChanges` and `widgets` props the key of change is used to match a specific change, a change's key is simply a string computed by the following rules:

```javascript
if (change.type === 'insert') {
    return 'I' + change.lineNumber;
}
else if (change.type === 'delete') {
    return 'D' + change.lineNumber;
}
else {
    return 'N' + change.oldLineNumber;
}
```

You are not required to compute this key yourself, the `getChangeKey(change)` exported function will do it.

## Advanced

### Customize hunk header

Sometimes you need to add functions to hunks, for example, to load collapsed code between 2 hunks, this can be archived with several steps:

1. Instead of pass the `hunks` props, map each hunk to a `Hunk` component and pass it as children of `Diff`.
2. Customize your `header` prop for `Hunk` component.

The `Hunk` named export is a component representing a hunk of diff, each hunk accepts a `header` prop with possible different types of value:

- `undefined`: Then `Hunk` will append a default header containing the content of hunk.
- `null`: Header will be removed completely.
- A single react element: this will be rendered in the entire row.
- An array containing two react elements: The first element will be rendered in gutter position, the second will be rendered in code position.

When using hunks as children, you are not required to pass extra props such as `viewType` or `customEvents` to `Hunk` component, these props will be passed by `Diff` component, the only reason you build your own children is to add the `header` prop:

```javascript
import {parseDiff, Diff, Hunk} from 'react-diff-view';

const renderHunk = hunk => {
    // Only render in the code section
    const header = [null, `${hunk.changes} changes below`];

    return <Hunk key={hunk.content} hunk={hunk} header={header} />;
};

const App = ({diffText}) => {
    const {files} = parseDiff(diffText);

    return (
        <div>
            {files.map(({hunks}, i) => <Diff key={i} viewType="split">{hunks.map(renderHunk)}</Diff>)}
        </div>
    );
};
```

### Mark column edits

The term "column edits" stands for highlighted areas on a modified line, they are usually produced by further comparing the old and new line content.

To mark an edits between changes, you can provide the `markEdits` function prop to `Diff` component, this function receives two changes and returns a tuple (array) of `[Edit[], Edit[]]`, the first element is edits for the old change, the second element is for the new change.

A edit is simply an array with two numbers `[startIndex, length]`, the first element is the start index in original text, the second number represents the length of this edit.

For example, we have a string `"This is a good day"` and two edits `[5, 2]` and `[10, 4]` as input, the result would be:

```html
This <mark class="diff-code-edit">is</mark> a <mark class="diff-code-edit">good</mark> day
```

The `markEdits` function **MUST** comply with some extra restrictions:

- Either `oldChange` or `newChange` can be null, you should check for it.
- The return value cannot be null, it must be an array with two arrays, neither `null` or `[null, null]` is accepted, for the result of "no edit", just return `[[], []]` instead.
- Edits must be sorted by `startIndex`.
- Edits cannot be overlapped with each other, the value `[[1, 3], [2, 3]]` can result undefined behavior.

`react-diff-view` is shipped with 2 built-in `markEdits` functions, they are:

- `{Function} markWordEdits({Object} options)` to diff two strings word by word.
- `{Function} markCharacterEdits({Object} options)` to diff two string character by character.

They both accept a `options` object with following properties:

- `{number} threshold`: The maximum string distance when this function should try to mark edits, if two string's distance is greater than it, edits marking is disabled, the default value is `Infinity`.
- `{boolean} markLongDistanceDiff`: If is `true`, two strings with distance greater than `threshold` will create an edit containing the whole string, the default value is `false`.

For example, following code asks `Diff` component to compare old and new content word by word when their distance is shorter than 30, if the content's distance is longer than 30, the entires line is marked:

```javascript
import {Diff, markWordEdits} from 'react-diff-view';

const markEdits = markWordEdits({threshold: 30, markLongDistanceDiff: true});

<Diff markEdits={markEdits} />
```

### Add widgets

In some cases we need functions like commenting on change, `react-diff-view` provides an extensible solution called **widget** to archive such senarios.

A widget is any react element bound to a change object, a widget is configured in an object with `change` and `element` property, when rendering diff changes, if there is a widget object with the same `change` object, the `element` will be rendered below the line of code.

In split view a widget will be rendered to its corresponding side if change object is of type addition or deletion, otherwise the widget will be rendered across the entire row.

Note although the `widgets` prop is of type array, each change can only render one widget, so if there are entries with the same `change` property, only the first one will be rendered.

Here is a very basic example which adds a warning text on long lines:

```javascript
import {parseDiff, getChangeKey, Diff} from 'react-diff-view';

const getWidgets = ({hunks}) => {
    const changes = hunks.reduce((result, {changes}) => [...result, ...changes], []);
    const longLines = changes.filter(({content}) => content.length > 120);
    return longLines.reduce(
        (widgets, change) => {
            const changeKey = getChangeKey(change);

            return {
                ...widgets,
                [changeKey]: <span className="error">Line too long</span>
            };
        },
        {}
    );
};

const App = ({diffText}) => {
    const {files} = parseDiff(diffText);

    return (
        <div>
            {files.map(({hunks}, i) => <Diff key={i} hunks={hunks} widgets={getWidgets(hunks)} viewType="split" />)}
        </div>
    );
};
```

For more complex case, you can get a full example in [demo/File.js](demo/File.js) about how to implement code comment with `widgets` prop

### Customize styles

The basic theme of `react-diff-view` is simply "picked" from github, with some additional colors for column diffs, the style is bundled with js using [style-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/style-loader) by default, if you want to separate the style, you can build it from the `src` folder, [webpack's `resolve.aliases` configuration](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/resolve/#resolve-alias) can help to archive this.

You can override styles on certian css classes to customize the appearance of `react-diff-view`, here is a list of css classes generated by component:

- `diff`: The diff container, a `<table>` element.
- `diff-gutter-col`: The `<col>` element to control the gutter column.
- `diff-hunk`: The `<tbody>` element representing a diff hunk.
- `diff-hunk-header`: The `<tr>` element reprensenting the hunk's header.
- `diff-hunk-header-gutter`: The `<td>` element corresponding to gutter within hunk header.
- `diff-hunk-header-content`: The `<td>` element corresponding to code content within hunk header.
- `diff-gutter`: The `<td>` element containing the line number.
- `diff-gutter-normal`: Gutter of a normal change.
- `diff-gutter-add`: Gutter of an addition.
- `diff-gutter-del`: Gutter of a deletion.
- `diff-gutter-omit`: Gutter with no content.
- `diff-gutter-selected`: Gutter of a selected change.
- `diff-line`: The `<tr>` element for a line of diff.
- `diff-line-old-only`: The `<tr>` element which only contains the left side columns, appears in split view
- `diff-line-new-only`: The `<tr>` element which only contains the right side columns, appears in split view
- `diff-code`: The `<td>` element containing code.
- `diff-code-normal`: Code of a normal change.
- `diff-code-add`: Code of an addition.
- `diff-code-del`: Code of a deletion.
- `diff-code-omit`: Code with no content.
- `diff-code-selected`: Code of a selected change.
- `diff-code-edit`: Edits on a line of code.
- `diff-widget`: The `<tr>` element to render widget.
- `diff-widget-gutter`: The first `<td>` element when widget is rendered in 2 cells.
- `diff-widget-content`: The `<td>` element to render widget content.

You can pass `className` prop to `Diff` component to add custom class to the `<table>` element.

The `Diff` component also accepts a `customClassNames` prop which contains custom css classes for different part, it can be a object with multiple keys: `hunk`, `hunkHeader`, `gutterHeader`, `codeHeader`, `line`, `gutter`, `code`, each value can be a string, the value will be appended to corresponding part's `className` prop.

### Customize events

You can pass a `customEvents` object to `Diff` component to add events to different part, the accepted keys are `gutterHeader`, `codeHeader`, `gutter` and `code`, each value is an object containing DOM events key/value pair.

One of the common case for `customEvents` is to add code selecting functionality, this can be archived simply by passing a `onClick` event to gutter and manipulate the `selectedChanges` prop:

```javascript
import {PureComponent} from 'react';
import {bind} from 'lodash-decorators';
import {Diff} from 'react-diff-view';

class File extends PureComponent {
    state = {
        selectedChanges: [],
        customEvents: {
            gutter: {
                onClick: this.selectChange
            }
        }
    };

    @bind()
    selectChange(change) {
        const {selectedChanges} = this.state;
        const selected = selectedChanges.includes(change);
        this.setState({selectedChanges: selected ? without(selectedChanges, change) : [...selectedChanges, change]});
    }

    render() {
        return <Diff {...this.props} {...this.state}>;
    }
}
```

`customEvents` can also be utilized to add comment or expand collapsed code, see [demo/File.js](demo/File.js) for more implementation details.

### Syntax highlight

As a minimum core component, `react-diff-component` itself does not provide any highlight functions, however the `onRenderCode` prop will be called each time a line of code is rendered, this can be used to enable code highlight.

The `onRenderCode` callback prop receives two elements: a `<td>` DOM element and its corresponding `change` object, the code is already rendered in the `<td>` element, you can simply call any syntax highlight library to highlight the code.

Note if `columnDiff` is enabled, there may be multiple `<span>` elements in `<td>` to highlight column differences, your syntax highlight library may stripped out all of them. Here we recommend [Prism](http://prismjs.com/) as the syntax highlighting library, combining with its [keep-markup plugin](https://github.com/PrismJS/prism/tree/gh-pages/plugins/keep-markup) the column difference can be preserved perfectly.

Another problem is most syntax highlighting library requires a css class on the container element, this can be solved by adding the `code` property in `customClassNames` prop, a very simple example could be:

```javascript
import {PureComponent} from 'react';
import parsePath from 'path-parse';
import {languages} from 'lang-map';
import {bind} from 'lodash-decorators';
import {Diff} from 'react-diff-view';
// Create your custom bundle of Prism with keep-markup plugin enabled
import Prism from './3rd/prism';
import './3rd/prism.css';

const highlight = element => Prisim.highlightElement(element);

class File extends PureComponent {
    state = {
        selectedChanges: [],
        customEvents: {
            code: {
                onClick: highlight
            }
        }
    };

    @bind()
    selectChange(change) {
        const {selectedChanges} = this.state;
        const selected = selectedChanges.includes(change);
        this.setState({selectedChanges: selected ? without(selectedChanges, change) : [...selectedChanges, change]});
    }

    render() {
        const {from, to} = this.props;
        const filename = to === '/dev/null' ? from : to;
        const {ext = ''} = parsePath(filename);
        const [language] = languages(ext);
        const classNames = {
            code: `language-${language || 'unknown'}`
        };
        return <Diff {...this.props} {...this.state} customClassNames={classNames}>;
    }
}
```

### Utilities

`react-diff-component` comes with some utility functions to help simplify common issues:

- `{Hunk[]} addStubHunk({Hunk[]} hunks)`: Adds a stub hunk (with no actual changes) to the end of `hunks`, this is useful when you want to expand code after the last line of diff.
- `{number} computeOldLineNumber({Change} change)`: Compute the line number in old revision for a change.
- `{number} computeNewLineNumber({Change} change)`: Compute the line number in new revision for a change.
- `{Hunk} textLinesToHunk({string[]} lines, {number} oldStartLineNumber, {number} newStartLineNumber)`: Create a hunk with all normal changes, this is useful when expanding code between two hunks.
- `{Hunk[]} insertHunk({Hunk[]} hunks, {Hunk} insertion)`: Insert a new hunk into the original list, it will merge sibling hunks if possible, useful for expanding code.

## Unsupported

### Wordwrap

No, there isn't a wordwrap configuration, lines are automatically wrapped by default, and there is almost impossible to implement other wrap styles, unless we choose `table-layout: auto` which critically hit the performance.

Any solutions of this issue are welcome.

### Test

I don't really know how to test such a complicated and UI centric component, any helps are welcome.

## Change Log

### 1.0.0

- Move to a self-implement diff parser which is faster and provides more information (binary, chmod, etc...).
- Add a `react-diff-view/parse` module providing 2 named exports: `parseDiff` and `addStubHunk`, this can be used on web workers.
- Styles are now in a standalone `index.css` file with source map support.
- Upgrade `react` and `prop-types` dependency versions to MIT licensed ones, also `react ^16.0.0` is supported.
